# GraphBLAS Spec Working Group Meeting Minutes - July 14, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] Ben Brock
- [X] Aydin Buluc
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [X] Jose Moreira

## Agenda

- Data Structures we support for serialization and import/export

## Minutes

**Minutes** by Tim Mattson

- [X] Logistics
   >  We discussed the need to be more disciplined about the work in this group.  We need minutes and a publicly visible repository to hold them.  In particular, I waste way too much time searching for notes and documents we pass around by email.  We need a repository to hold working documents from the working group.  The group agreed to model our work along the lines of what we've been doing for the LAGraph group.  Tim agreed to set this up.
    > If we are going to be writing minutes, we need to agree on how we handle them.  The best model is to rotate minute taking responsibilities.  We sill try to make that work (Tim pleaded ... please do not make hm to it all the time (which is what has happened with the LAGraph group).
    >  We will eventually move the spec to a github repository and STOP making changes in the main branch.  Changes will be in separate branches and we'll merge with a formal pull request.  We want everyone to review these pull requests so we manage the group by consensus.  This will work since we are a small group.  If the  group gets much larger than it is now, we'll need to move to a more formal voting process (people don't join, organization join.  One vote per organization as defined by formal by-laws).  This will be a pain-in-the-tush but if we are successful enough to need this, that will be a good thing.
   > just to emphasize on closing, Tim will set all this up.  We will also have an agenda file we can go to and see agenda's for meeting over time (the use of a google spreadsheet to do this does not work for a variety of reasons.  We really need everything in one place).
    
- [X] GrB_Context (a continuation of last week's agenda)
  > We have a problem.  Our initial definition of context was too vague.  We now have to figure out exactly what it means as we move to a world where we have single threaded, multi-threaded, distributed, and GPU versions of the GraphBLAS coexisting, possibly in a single program.   Even though this was not on the agenda for this meeting, we spend our entire meeting talking about this.  
  
   > We clearly need a GrB_context object so we can pass a handle to certain GrB methods.  We have two options:
   > 1. GrB_init() returns a context handle.  If we need multiple contexts, then we call GrB_init() multiple times
   >  2. GrB_init() is used to initialize an instance of a graphBLAS library.  This is akin to the platform model of OpenCL
   
   > After discussing this for a while we decided to go with a variation of option 2, though there are a number of complications with the platform model in OpenCL.  It might not be too bad in C++, but having multiple instances of a library (imagine a single program wish to call GraphBLAS CPU and a GraphBLAS GPU libraries) is probably too much for a C interface.  
   > If GrB_init() initializes an instance of a GraphBLAS library, then we need a separate call to create a context:  
        ~~~

        GrB_Info GrB_context_new        
        (
             GrB_Context *context,
             MPI_comm communicator,  
             GrB_error *err
         )
        ~~~
     
    >  We would require an implementation to support the case where you pass in an MPI communicator.  Other systems would be supported, but as implementation defined features (note: this is a concept we import from OpenMP.  An implementation is able to do whatever it needs to support the creation of a context, but it must fully document it.  This way we can support OpenSHMEM, UPC++, OpenMP, and whatever an implementor wants)
     
   >   We would change the GrB_new for "container objects" where a container object is a GrB_Matrix, GrB_Vector, or GrB_scalar.  We would require that the container objects on any graphBLAS method call belong to the same context.  
     
     > In the GraphBLAS distributed paper, we mentioned that we might want to allow methods to call an object belonging to a distributed context but pass in GrB_objects defined locally on a node.  This may or may not be something we want to do. It is much more complicated than it might seem at first.  We clearly need to talk about this more.
     
     >  If we add a context idea to GraphBLAS we need to define how you manipulate a context.   Do I need a GrB_Context_World and then define ways to pull out GrB_process_groups, split a GrB_context, duplicate a GrB_context, etc.   Or do we just define a GrB_context_new and leave it to the external distributeds/parallel computing programming environment to take care of those sort of manipulations (editors note ... upon further reflection, I think this is what we need to do)
     
- [X] Plans for the next couple meetings.

    > We will discuss proposed changes to GraphBLAS from our users (Gabor and Friends plus the folks from Anaconda). Then we'll move on to the agenda we were supposed to cover this week (serialization and import/export).
