# GraphBLAS Spec Working Group Meeting Minutes - August 26, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] Ben Brock
- [X] Aydin Buluc
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira

## Agenda

- Discuss an API proposal for serialize/deserialize and input/output.

## Minutes

**Minutes** by TBD
