# GraphBLAS Spec Working Group Meeting Minutes - October 6, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] Ben Brock
- [X] Aydin Buluc
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [X] Jose Moreira



## Minutes

### C++ SPEC

Scott and Ben have been working on the C++ specification.   They have a Google document capturing some of 
their ideas about the GraphBLAS C++ containers.

   - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UJCuA-CsS4nEaNhLkrEtuQpPpaqOgORhxwOUZ_goGYQ/edit

The format of this document is modeled on: 

     - https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/container/vector

We discussed the GraphBLAS C++ spec in light of the work Andrew Lumsdaine and friends are doing with NWGraph.  Andrew
sees graphs as "range of ranges" iterators applied to a container composed of standard STL containers.  This is 
a vertex oriented view of graph algorithms which is fundamentally at odds with our approach with the GraphBLAS.

Or is it?  Scott pointed out that he sees them as isomorphic to each other, and if you think about it for a while, Scott is right.
It should be possible for the NWGraph approach to exist side-by-side with a GraphBLAS approach.   This is important because
there will always be algorithms that come up that you just can't do with the GraphBLAS.  A recent example is the Gauss-Seidel algorithm
for Page Rank.

### When is "in" not really an "in"?

Jose brought up a conversation he had with Tim Davis.  Consider the GraphBLAS operation

...
     GrB_mxm(C,A,B)
...

the matrices A and B are, according to the definition of GrB_mxm(), in arguments while C is
an out or perhaps an inout argument.  Here is the question Jose posed.  If A and B are in arguments,
can they change?   Of course they can't, but think about it:

    - The C programming languages gives us no way to detect let alone prevent them from changing.
    - A function elsewhere in the program (perhaps running in a different thread) can change them which would be a race condition.
    - Given lazy evaluation in nonblocking mode, A or B may depend on an object defined earlier in "program order" and a change in that object may cause a change in A or B after entry to GrB_mxm().
    
Of course, a programmer can create a race condition for which our asses are covered since a program with a race is an invalid program.  But
what if an error condition in one of the "in" arguments occurs that is not detected until the program has entered Grb_mxm().  Does changing an
argument condition on an "in" argument mean you've changed that object and therefore it is not an "in" argument but it is an "inout" argument?

Tim asserts .... since we have defined an error model where the error condition is tied to an object, you MUST be able to change the error parameter on 
an object even if its an "in" argument.  The C language does not define "in", "out", or "inout" so we are free to define them as we see fit.  Ben then
provided a workable definition of "in"

    - An argument to a GraphBLAS method is an "in" parameter if the set of tuples associated with an object, both their indices and their values, do not change.
    
In other words, we define "in" with respect to what we can observe and test for  the indices and values but we specifically let the error
string change.  That does violate the meaning of "in" in a "pure" sense and that's bad.  But it works.   

The next problem, however, is with the at approach, you can have a situation where two threads will create a race condition on "in" 
arguments as they update the error strings.  We could require a mutual exclusion lock on that update but given the state of C in the modern
world, there is no portable way to specify a mutual exclusion lock (an amazing state of affairs given that people have been writing multithreaded code for over 40 years).  

We did not reach closure, but  we did get the issue "on the floor" so we can think about this and resolve it soon.  As Scott pointed out, we have a new version of the spec (2.0) due by the end of the year and we said we'd resolve all these multithreading issues by then.


