# GraphBLAS Spec Working Group Meeting Minutes - October 27, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] Ben Brock
- [X] Aydin Buluc
- [ ] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [X] Jose Moreira

## Minutes

We discussed comments from Tim Davis and others on the draft import/export
API.  A brief synopsis of the import/export API, followed by a summary of each point of discussion, as well as consensus if reached, is listed below.

### Synopsis
The import/export draft API is an API to importing or exporting a GraphBLAS matrix using a set of pre-defined matrix formats.  The import function can be used to import a matrix from a user-owned data structure in one of a set of pre-defined `GrB_Format` formats.  This will create an opaque GraphBLAS matrix which contains a copy of the matrix, and the user may modify their original data structure later without affecting the GraphBLAS Matrix.

For export, the user first calls a function `GrB_Matrix_Export_Size`, which takes in a matrix and a desired format and tells the user how much space to allocate in order to export the matrix.  The user can then call `GrB_Matrix_Export` with their pre-allocated buffers to export the matrix.  This allows the user to pick the memory allocation method for the exported data structure (which could be, for example, a memory-mapped file).  The user can also optionally call the function `GrB_Matrix_Export_Hint`, which will return a `GrB_Format` indicating whether there is a particularly efficient format for exporting the matrix (e.g., if the matrix is currently stored in CSR format, returning `GrB_CSR_FORMAT`).  In the case where no format is particularly more efficient, `GrB_ANY_FORMAT` may be returned as a hint, which indicates any sparse format may be used.

1. Tim Davis: Is there any possibility import could provide a zero-copy method of transferring ownership of the GraphBLAS matrix internal data structures?  Consensus: It would be possible to create a separate `GrB_Matrix_Move` method, but that would be separate from the import/export.  We briefly discussed this possibility, but set it aside for now.

2. Tim Davis: We should consider renaming the API from `GrB_Import_Matrix` to `GrB_Matrix_Import` for consistency.  Consensus: yes, we will change the name.

3. Scott McMillan: Should we consider a `GrB_Vector_Import` function?  Consensus: perhaps in the future, but for now let's only include `GrB_Matrix_Import`, as this is needed more badly than a vector import.

4. Tim Davis: The current spec is ambiguous about whether the sparse matrices are required to be sorted. e.g., must the rows of a CSR be sorted? Must a COO be in any particular order? Consensus: for the time being, we will not require any sparse matrix to be sorted.  If we decide to add support for sorted matrices later, we can add additional formats, e.g. `GrB_CSR_SORTED_FORMAT`.

5. Aydin Buluc: the current `GrB_Format` names are somewhat verbose.  Can we remove the `FORMAT` suffix, and then remove the `GrB_ANY_FORMAT` type to remove ambiguity around `GrB_ANY`?  No consensus on this issue.  `FORMAT` is currently used to avoid confusion and so that the format names (e.g. `GrB_CSR`, `GrB_CSC`, `GrB_COO`) could be used for a different purpose in the future, if needed.  Alternate methods for signaling `GrB_ANY_FORMAT` might including returning a GraphBLAS error, although this is less elegant.

6. Scott McMillan: What is the relationship between import, export, build, and extract tuples?  Does the introduction of import/import necessitate deprecating the old API?  Should build also have a format hint?  No consensus, further discussion required.
