# GraphBLAS Spec Working Group Meeting Minutes - November 24, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] Ben Brock
- [X] Aydin Buluc
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [X] Jose Moreira

## Minutes

The Great Multithreading debate continues!  But this time, we actually made progress and closed on some decisions.  

       "Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus"

### Synopsis

The GraphBLAS specification today implicitly assumes  that GraphBLAS methods are called from a single thread.  An implementation can use as many threads as desired inside a method, but the methods are called from a single thread of control.  We never say this in the specification, but it is implied by the fact that we say nothing about how the graphBLAS interact with a memory consistency model.   

Memory consistency models are complex.  They define the values you are allowed to read when loading values from memory shared between threads.  In practice, it takes years to get them right, and even after years of work, most memory consistency model in use today have odd corner cases where things break down.  The last thing we want to do is define a memory consistency model for the GraphBLAS.  Instead we need to understand what we need to do so we can work with the memory consistency model defined by the host programming environment.

After many months of discussion, we have possibly figured this out.  Many people are happy this week since we have finally begun the formal transition to the Biden Administration.  That is small-potatoes compared to the Epic Result that Tim and Jose (and the rest) now agree on how to move forward with multithreading in the GraphBLAS.

To describe where we are at, we need to write down a few definitions.   Here they are:

1. A GraphBLAS object is complete after a particular GraphBLAS method call when any GraphBLAS method that follows (happens after) said method can safely use the object as an IN or INOUT argument, even if the method calls are in different threads

2. A GraphBLAS sequence is the directed acyclic graph (DAG) of calls to GraphBLAS methods that defines an object at any point in a program

3. A GraphBLAS object is materialized at a point in a program when it is (1) complete, (2) the computations defined by the sequence that define it at that point have finished (either fully or stopped at an error) and will not consume any additional computational resources, and (3) any errors associated with that sequence are available to be read according to the GraphBLAS error model

A read-after-write dependency is a race condition unless: (1) the  GraphBLAS object in question is complete, and (2) the write happens-before the read.  Here is an example of a producer-consumer pattern that is race-free using these concepts:

   ``` 
GrB_matrix A,B,C,D;
int flag = o;
#pragma omp parallel num_threads(2) shared(A,B,C,D,flag)
{
   if (omp_get_num_threads() < 2) exit();
   int ID=omp_get_thread_num();
   if (ID == 0){
       A = GrB_mxm(B,C);
       GrB_complete(A);
       
     #pragma omp flush
     
     int tmp = flag;
     tmp++;
     #pragma omp atomic write
     flag = tmp;
   }
   else if(ID==1){
      int tmp = 0;
      while(tmp == 0) {
           #pragma omp atomic read
            tmp = flag;
        }       #pragma omp flush
       D=GrB_mxm(A,C);
     }
}

   ``` 
Note carefully what is going on here.  You need to address two issues in multithreaded programming: (1) setting ordering constraints between threads (i.e. synchronization), and (2) define constraints on memory orders (that's what the flushes do).  We need a call to GrB_Complete(A) to make sure the GraphBLAS implementation makes A ready to be used in another thread.  We still need the memory order and synchronized-with features from the host languages (that's the flushes and the spin-lock).  In essence, we are using the concept of complete to define how we interact with the memory model in the host language.  We are not creating a new memory model.  We are defining the required constraint placed on the state of a GraphBLAS object so we correctly interact with a memory model external to the graphBLAS specification.

In my original proposal, I used GrB_wait() to signal completion.  This was a change in the API since originally GrB_wait() indicated materialization.  Jose proposed and after some discussion we all agreed that we should deprecate GrB_wait() and add two new functions: GrB_complete() and GrB_materialize().   

We closed the meeting by agreeing that Tim will update the text in the specification to reflect these changes.  He has some deadlines at work so this will have to wait until after the second week in December.  

And finally, we should be thankful for this progress and reflect on "what a long strange trip it's been" (As a graduate of UC Santa Cruz, I am required to slip grateful dead references into my communication when commemorating significant events).

