# GraphBLAS Spec Working Group Meeting Minutes - July 21, 2020

## Attendees
- [ ] Ben Brock
- [X] Aydin Buluc
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [X] Jose Moreira

## Agenda

- Discuss the GraphBLAS wish list from the Anaconda folks.

## Minutes

**Minutes** by Tim Mattson

- [X] item 1:  GrB_Scalar
   >  We just need to add it.  We have consensus in the group to do this  We know we need this for reduction, but do we need this for extract element or other graphBLAS functions?  
       
- [X] Item 2: A function to find in-degree and out-degree of a graph
  > Compute in-degree and out-degree from a single function call.   Even though this can be computed when needed with existing GraphBLAS, in terms of building an interface to a library it is handy to have a single function you can just call to compute such things.  We could add this as a utility function, but this is also an instance of scope creep in the graphBLAS.    This can be done by applying the one unary operator followed by a reduction (as stated in Eric?s expanded notes on this item).   There is a degree of algorithm specificity to this that makes it challenging to turn into a simple function.

- [X] Assign a vector to the diagonal of a matrix
   >  Aydin pointed out that even Matlab doesn?t provide this since you can write this in two lines of code.  It is not clear how to do this efficiently for sparse data structures outside of a sequence of assignments of tuples.   If you did through a constructor that took a vector as input and it constructed a matrix that had vector as it diagonal.  Then I could do an element-wise add to put that into another matrix to find the Laplacian.    Note that in many cases, some of these functions they are asking for may better be presented as utility functions in LAGraph.

- [X] General comments from our discussion of the list

   > There is a common theme across the items from the Anaconda list.  When writing a python wrapper around a C library, it is convenient to have a straightforward functional interface.   Yes, some of the items from the list (such as in-degree/out-degree) an be represented by a few calls to GraphBLAS functions.  Given how common this is, however, it would be nice to have it as a GraphBLAS function.  However, we really need to think about those items that are best left as utilities in a LAGraph-like library as opposed to items (such as import/export) that really need to be in the GraphBLAS.
   

- [X] item 6: import/export functions

   > This is a copy, not a function that exposes the structure of our opaque data types.   So we need to define the specific CSR/CSC input structure and then copy into the GraphBLAS object.    This is needed though it gets complicated when you move to distributed matrices.  The question for us to consider can we do without a copy?  We don?t think so but we need to think about this hard.   We have a consensus that we need to add this capability ? though maybe we should pick one (CSR or CSC).  There really is no reason to support both.  Jose is OK but he is does not support adding complexities of reusing storage or in any way exposing the internal structure of the GraphBLAS types.   We don?t take ownership of memory.  It is a copy into a GraphBLAS object.  
   
 - [X] Homework
   
   > Scott will prepare a spreadsheet and put it somewhere for the group to access.  We need to read the list (I sent it around by email at the beginning of the meeting) and vote for items from the list we need to just drop, which we need to add to GraphBLAS, and ones that need additional discussion.  We had a good argument on whether this list should be on github or if it should be in a google document.   Tim was a whiney pain-in-the ass about EVER using Google Docs in any form.  Aydin was grumpy and didn't want to use github for what is better handled as a google doc.  We decided to drop the discussion for now but I'm sure it will come up again.
   
    - [X] Next meetings
    
     > Remember, we have an agenda document which tracks future meetings
     
     >  For our next meeting we'll discuss the votes on the list and then move on to the planned topic of the import/export capability.
   