# GraphBLAS Spec Working Group Meeting Minutes - July 7, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] Ben Brock
- [X] Aydin Buluc
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [ ] Scott McMillan
- [X] Jose Moreira

## Agenda

- distributed initialiaqtion

## Minutes

**Minutes** by Ben Brock with additions from Tim Mattson

- [X] Logistics
   >  reached consensus that `GrB_Init` should be implementation-defined, of the form `GrB_Init(T context)`.  
   >  Some thought that we should develop the distributed API in the main document.  Others though that we absolutely MUST NOT develop the distributed API in the main document.  The main document is NOT the place to hash out basic functionality.  We should only put material into the main branch after we have reached consensus.  This clearly is something we'll need to talk about alter.
      