# GraphBLAS Spec Working Group Meeting Minutes - March 23, 2021

## Attendees
- [X] Ben Brock
- [X] Aydin Buluc
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [X] Jose Moreira

## Minutes

Scott presented changes to reduce vector/matrix to add support for GrB_Scalar.  
We discussed whether or not the BinaryOp versions were going to stay in (they 
are).  We discussed the seeming inconsistencies of the corner cases where the 
input vector/matrix are empty.

Ben discussed the shortening of Matrix format names and the addition of Vector
methods for both import/export and serialize/deserialize.

We have been accepted to give a tutorial on GraphBLAS in python at ACM ICS in June.