# GraphBLAS Spec Working Group Meeting Minutes - February 23, 2021

## Attendees
- [X] Ben Brock
- [X] Aydin Buluc
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [X] Jose Moreira

## Minutes

We have been remiss in documenting meetings.

We may have been discussing pygraphblas tutorial preparations for SIAM CSE 2021.
