# GraphBLAS Spec Working Group Meeting Minutes - March 9, 2021

## Attendees
- [X] Ben Brock
- [X] Aydin Buluc
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [X] Jose Moreira

## Minutes

30 minutes discussing the SIAM CSE GraphBLAS tutorial.  We generally agreed
that the tutorial went well, and that it was a good decision pedagogically to
focus on using Pygraphblas, as this allowed using cloud-hosted Jupyter Notebooks
(for quick startup) and allowed focusing more on algorithms.

Thoughts about improvement:
- Ben noted that we should consider modifying the Tutorial's choice of
  Pygraphblas functions to be slightly more like NumPy.
- Tim and Scott noted that we should continue to streamline the tutorial to
  get deeper into algorithms.  Scott has done some work on PageRank.

Rest of meeting spent discussing TODOs for GraphBLAS 2.0.

- Discussed distributed API.  We again discussed the "namespace problem," which
  is that using different GraphBLAS C implementations simultaneously is not
  currently possible, since the names will conflict. In general, distributed is
  deferred until after 2.0.

Note: C++ namespaces can solve this in C++.  We will probably need to require
each implementer to define their own namespace, and then the user will alias it
to `grb`.

- We assigned various tasks based on Scott's email.
