# GraphBLAS Spec Working Group Meeting Minutes - May 25, 2021

## Attendees
- [X] Ben Brock
- [ ] Aydin Buluc
- [ ] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [X] Jose Moreira

## Minutes

ICS Tutorial
- Scott is to move the SIAM tutorial repo to the new domain (Tim should move the C tutorial repo as well from his domain).
- Ben is going to set up the ICS21-tutorial repo and figure out how to set up a website.
- WE NEED A 4th 90-MINUTE BLOCK!!  Possibilities:
  - give students a number of algorithms and guide data exploration of the HPEC data set
  - develop the page rank algorithm (or maybe even personalized page rank)
  - develop a clustering algorithm (Louvain could get a bit involved).

Review of spec updates (Scott presented a number of updates and asked a bunch of questions).
- General comment: check const correctness.
- reduce to scalar: 
  - Missing NEW CONTENT tags
- apply binary op:
  - Missing copy of GrB_Scalars to \tilde{s}
- apply index unary op:
  - Missing copy of GrB_Scalars to \tilde{s}
  - Change f_iu to f_i (as shown in the Parameters section for op)
- select
  - Change f_{i,j} to f_i
  - remove unnecessary use of scalar, s (after copy into val).
  - Correct typo when copying s into \tilde{s}
- assign constant variants
  - Missing copy of GrB_Scalars to \tilde{s}
  - Confirmed that annihilation happens
- Add non-polymorphic entries
