# GraphBLAS Spec Working Group Meeting Minutes - Sept 28, 2021

## Attendees
- [X] Ben Brock
- [X] Aydin Buluc
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [X] Jose Moreira

## Minutes

We all met to discuss outstanding issues. Conversation mainly surrounded items that Tim Davis is
finding with the implementation of the Draft spec in SuiteSparse.

- Ben discussed various items related to serialize/deserialize and import/export especially focusing
  on dense format output when the matrix has unstored values.
- Scott started going through the rest of the github issues raised by Tim Davis see action items for a complete list.

Action Items:

- Ben is to create a proposal for dealing with issues of the dense format

- Scott is to list the status of the active issues in github related to the GraphBLAS C API v2.0 spec  which follows

-	33: Change the index unary operator signature from 
	-	void func(void *result, const void *aij, GrB_Index *indices, int n, const void *c); to 
	-	void func(void *result, const void *aij, int64_t i, int64_t j, const void *c); 
	-	We discussed this on the call, Tim to do further research regarding GPU’s etc
-	34: Should we add GrB_INDEX_MAX to the list of things that implementations need to set/define.
-	35: Adding which diag, GrB_Matrix_diag() initializes with the vector
	-	Scott to add the diag index to the signature (rule: try to accommodate the Matlab way of doing things wherever possible)
	-	We decided NOT to add a descriptor to this method
-	36: Where is vector serialize/deserialize?
	-	We have discussed this previously…are we deferring to a later release?
-	37: Modifications to matrix serialize/deserialize signatures
	-	Ben to deal with this.
-	40: TRIL and TRIU are off-by-one compared to MATLAB
	-	Scott to fix (rule: try to accommodate the Matlab way of doing things wherever possible)
-	41: “input-only” parameters when an error occurs.
	-	Everyone, to read chapter 2(?) about PANIC and unmodified state of any input-only argument
-	42: export a dense format when the matrix has unstored values
	-	Ben to come up with a proposal
-	43: NULL input to GrB_wait should be disallowed
	-	Scott concurs.  Tim should review the proposal.
-	45: TRIL, TRIU, DIAG, OFFDIAG, COLLE, COLGT, ROWLE, ROWGT only need _INT64 versions
	-	We should all discuss briefly before adopting this change (in general I am all for reducing the type explosion in predefined operators.
-	46: PAIR operator (or called ONE), plus a bunch of new semirings that use it.
	-	Tim is “begging” for this to be built-in for performance reasons.
	-	Should this be delayed?
	-	Issue 21 (BB-37) GrB_ANY is related.
