# GraphBLAS Spec Working Group Meeting Minutes - January 5, 2021

## Attendees
- [X] Ben Brock (listen only)
- [X] Aydin Buluc
- [ ] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [X] Jose Moreira

## Minutes

The members present spent time reading the changes Tim Mattson made regarding multithreading issues. Scott took notes and are presented below.  We did not get further than the third paragraph of Section 2.8.1 Execution modes (the definition of nonblocking).

At the end briefly discussed other outstanding issues:
- Scott is working on finalizing the list of index unary ops (working with Tim Davis) and is preparing to update two of the examples: triangle count (to use TRIL), and parent BFS (to use apply(i) with ROWINDEX)
- Scott is working on feedback for Ben's import/export
- Discussed whether or not we had anything appropriate to present at GrAPL (Aydin thinks not)

## Synopsis

### Moving away from "sequence"

- Section 2.1.4 definition of sequence: It is not clear that we need a definition of sequence. It seems too restrictive and imposes an order ("ordered collection") on the DAG that is predecessor(s) to some point in the program.  Jose believes that all we need is the definition of the "slice" of the DAG (Jose: "the transitive closure of the predecessor function of some point in the DAG").

- Section 2.1.4 definition of complete: First sentence should be reworded: "A GraphBLAS object defined on one thread [needs to be] complete [before] it can be safely used..."

- We still prefer removing GrB_wait(obj) and using GrB_complete(obj) and GrB_materialize(obj)

- Section 2.1.5 definition of thread safe: there is a question about overlapping input args that needs to be delved into at next meeting.  Also, should the interplay between complete and thread safe be mentioned here?

- Section 2.8, paragraph 2: We think the DAG is more precise than program order.

- Section 2.8, paragraph 3: The "subgraph of the overall DAG" is the slice (or transitive closure of the predecessors of a node in the DAG).  Slice is better than "ordered collection".

- Section 2.8, paragraph 5: We think the first sentence is too strong ("A correct GraphBLAS application is race free").  Something more along the lines of "If you program is race free this is what is gauranteed."  and/or "We only discuss/define behaviours for race-free programs."

### What is definition of blocking mode?

- Section 2.8.1, definitions of blocking and nonblocking, the use of the term "finishes" or "finished" is ambiguous. Also missing relationships to complete().

- Section 2.8.1, definition of blocking: this definition seems to be inconsistent with definition of complete earlier.  IMPORTANT: we need to come to agreement on whether blocking mode implies complete() or materialized().  I thought it was the former.

- Section 2.8.1, definition of nonblocking: Second sentence needs to be changed: "The GraphBLAS method may not have finished [replace with a more precise term], but the output object is ready to be used by the next GraphBLAS method call [in the same thread]."