# GraphBLAS Spec Working Group Meeting Minutes - February 9, 2021

## Attendees
- [X] Ben Brock
- [X] Aydin Buluc
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [X] Jose Moreira

## Minutes

We have been remiss in documenting meetings.

Likely spent discussing 

- needs for the GrAPL submission on the 2.0 API.
- Notation being developed by Gabor Szarnyas in conjuction with the LAGraph project was brought up.  Decision was made to let Tim and Scott be involved outside of the API meetings.
- finalization of terminology for multithreading and distributed contexts .