# GraphBLAS Spec Working Group Meeting Minutes - March 16, 2021

## Attendees
- [X] Ben Brock
- [X] Aydin Buluc
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [X] Jose Moreira

## Minutes

At this meeting, Scott presented changes to setElement and extractElement 
methods for matrix and vector to add support for GrB_Scalar.

We also reviewed all of the work that needs to be done to finish Version 2.0.