# GraphBLAS Spec Working Group Meeting Minutes - July 20, 2021

## Attendees
- [X] Ben Brock
- [X] Aydin Buluc
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [X] Jose Moreira

## Minutes

Big Day!!

- Tim added the final changes to the 2.0 Spec, and acknowledgements were updated. Now the formal review period has begun.  

- The repository has been moved from bitbucket private repo to a public (more transparent) repo at github.com/GraphBLAS/graphblas-api-c

Action Items:

- All members are to review Chapters 1-3, 5, and appendices, while Ben and Scott try to build the list of changes in Chapter 4 and come up with assignments for next week's meeting.

- Jose is to update the code and make sure the code examples in the appendix compile.

- Scott (and Ben?) are to copy the bitbucket issues to the new github repo