# GraphBLAS Spec Working Group Meeting Minutes - May 4, 2021

## Attendees
- [X] Ben Brock
- [ ] Aydin Buluc
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [X] Jose Moreira

May the Fourth be With You!

## Minutes

The needs of the upcoming ICS tutorial:
  
- There will be 90 minute blocks starting at 6:30am - 2:30pm PDT on June 18, 2021.  We currently have 3 90-minute blocks and need to come up with candidates for a 4th block.  Everyone needs to brainstorm "chunks of pedagogy."
- Scott needs to create a new github domain "GraphBLAS-Tutorials".  Then we need to move existing public and private repos to this location (one from tgmattso and one from GraphBLAS domains on github.

Discussion of reduce:
 
- Tim Davis wants a meeting (with Joe Eaton) to discuss binary op versions.
- Scott proposed holding off on any operations that use GrB_Scalar as an input because the behaviour when the scalar is empty is not well defined.
- Discussion of other APIs led to statement that identity is not really necessary so much as an initial value.  We could require that the GrB_Scalar hold the initial value.
- This led to a discussion of whether or not we should even be supporting an "empty GrB_Scalar".
- *There are enough fundametal issues with GrB_Scalar, and there is strong resistance to the inclusion of any reduce operation that takes a BinaryOp that we need to consider delaying release of the 2.0 specification*

Discussion of GrB_wait:

- Tim feels strongly that GrB_wait(obj) should be supported to eliminate one backward compatibility breaking change.
- To do this decided that the default mode for GrB_wait(obj) is MATERIALIZE (should we deprecate this signature?).
- An overloaded GrB_wait(obj, mode) will also be provided. The mode parameter is either COMPLETE or MATERIALIZE.
